it's day 2 and the mass evacuation is
underway the ants march along well-worn
tracks originally the foraging trails
between the old nest and the swarm front
but now the main roads along which Queen
and colony will pass
their Trek is about the length of two
football pitches laid end to end and
they're not travelling empty-handed
each ant carries a larva or a pupa hung
below her body the equivalent of us
running a marathon while carrying a sack
of potatoes and not stopping for a rest
[Music]
the entire emigration can take up to
three days it seems chaotic but every
ant in this extraordinary melon knows
exactly what she's doing
giant soldiers were their massive jaws
line the root so the workers wear their
precious cargo can travel safely along
and living animal
they're passing at a rate of 250,000
ants and power some unwittingly carry
infiltrators even tiny ants a host to
even tinier mice
the invading army is building in numbers
[Music]
traveling with her subjects is the queen
at two inches long she's the largest
aunt in the world
and she's a new queen when her mother's
colony grew too large and divided half
the workers switched their allegiance
and now accompany her on her first
emigration
[Music]
our enormous bulk has been coaxed along
the trail and now she takes her place at
the heart of the nest
[Music]
the queen is in her palace and what a
palace it's become
it's a living bivouac
Vaness made entirely of pants
[Music]
all its internal walls are made of ants
all its corridors and chambers
constructed of living bricks
[Music]
and when they're all assembled in their
new stronghold they form one of the
largest concentrations of ants
protected by these living walls other
nurseries where wave after wave of brood
carriers deliver their load
[Music]